Light Touch is a project that aims to create a bridge between the virtual and material worlds, using an FSR (force sensing resistor) to interact with the material world and have an effect in the virtual space. For a very long time, the interface between the virtual and material has been limited to a mouse and keyboard, occasionally a controller—nothing more than just a few buttons. This project is an attempt to enrich the interfacing devices between these two vastly different worlds. There have been many attempts by others, ranging from face tracking, expression prediction to heart rate monitoring, and so on. Compared to heart rate monitors or face tracking, Light Touch takes a more active approach. Instead of passively collecting data, the user must interact with Light Touch for it to work. This is a very important part of my practice—to gain hands-on experience(see the pun there?). Active participation means giving an output with a conscious mind, therefore making it more valuble than a purely biological reaction like increased heartrate due to a sudden audio/visual stimulus in my opinion. 

Technically, this project uses a custom-made FSR to sense the pressure exerted by the user and reflect it via an LED indicator and through a serial port back to the PC, which can then be used for other purposes. In terms of code, the program maintains an array of forces sensed by the sensor—about 50 of them. Each new force sensed is pushed into the array, popping the oldest one off. With this array of forces, the program calculates the average and uses that as the actual force value to control the LEDs. In this way, the force output is much smoother, meaning the LEDs have no flickering and a fade-in and fade-out effect.
